reign of fire is a fantasy sci-fi movie
that came out in 2002 it follows quinn a
fire chief who's trying to keep a group
of refugees alive while the dragons they
woke up 20 years prior are terrorizing
humanity's every move so spoiler alert
obviously while i may give you my
opinion on the film that's no substitute
for experiencing it yourself links to
the film are in the description like the
video if you enjoy and subscribe to see
more surprisingly this film starts out
with some seriously dramatic opening
credit visuals and sounds it almost sets
up something that feels more like an
armageddon movie than a modern dragon
infested film it's a nice touch we
follow a young queen who just walks into
an obviously active construction site
all these workers are leaving while this
little boy just waltzes right by them to
an elevator an elevator that feels like
it's the mode of transport to hell it
just kept going down a never-ending
tunnel shaft obviously this was before
osha put laws up about children in the
workplace once at the bottom he runs
into his mother who questions him about
what's bothering him this boy came all
the way down there to hand his mother a
paper from school about tuition that
seriously couldn't have waited until she
got off of her shift the school requires
more than she can afford so quinn brings
up his father contributing which isn't
taken lightly this alludes to the fact
that his parents are apparently not
together anymore when a worker tells
quinn's mother that another worker has
hit a void it brings her attention to
this new apparent problem quinn goes and
talks to another worker who has opened a
new hole of discovery he then hands gwyn
a flashlight and tells him to go in
seriously he hands queen a flashlight
tells him to go on in this giant void
and walks off no sense of responsibility
whatsoever shown so far while inside the
cave quinn notices some strange textures
on the wall and that's when the void
becomes illuminated by fire revealing a
living breathing dragon that spits a
viscous bodily fluid in his eyes quinn
runs back to his mother who surprisingly
takes him to an eye-washing station
after she lightly reprimands the worker
for sending him in
two workers run back to the void quinn
came from only to be set ablaze by the
same dragon queen and his mother run to
the elevator and begin rising only to
have the dragon chase them up the shaft
and stop the elevator during the
dragon's ascent it kills quinn's mom
with its talents which seem to haunt
quinn for years to come this leads to a
montage of information on dragons that
propels us through time while a young
christian bale narrated how screwed
mankind was an interesting little tidbit
of info that i'm sure so many of you
that have seen this should have seen
coming the dragons featured in this
movie are actually wyverns wyverns have
two legs whereas dragons have four now
mankind has fled the cities only to live
in underground tunnels similar to those
in which the first dragon was discovered
the year is now 2020 and technology has
taken a turn for the worse now we're
introduced to a young creedy played by
gerard butler who is putting on a show
for the younger kids in the community
surprisingly his fake acting still isn't
his worst acting to date creedy and
quinn are putting on a renaissance
looking version of star wars this just
goes to show that the community might be
going through some hard times but it's
still thriving once everyone is asleep a
group of mutineers work together to make
off with vehicles to leave the camp
vulnerable they make their way to where
the crops for the community are being
grown and begin to ravage the crops that
are meant for all of them in the
meantime a spotter of the community
sounds the alarm signifying that a
dragon has been spotted and the
community goes into lockdown this makes
one of the girls the significant other
of one of the mutineers tell quinn about
them leaving it seems to be too late for
them though as their picking of crops is
cut short by a dragon coming over the
horizon the dragon begins to burn the
crops and the mutineers bit by bit in
their attempt to flee the dragon burns
their vehicle which causes them to take
shelter in the burning crops it's good
to know that dragons are more innovative
than humans when it comes to survival
it's in this instance that quinn comes
emerging through the flames in a flame
retardant suit probably one of the most
epic scenes i've seen in a while he
rescues the remaining mutineers and
takes them to the vehicles some
community members brought to save them
the dragon dispatches two of them like
they're nothing while the other two
frantically flee the scene while they're
watching the crops burn interestingly
the dragon lets them go and collects the
ash from the field instead quinn and
cready sit back at the fortress while
having a stiff drink quinn begins to
question if the way they've been doing
things is all wrong honestly if it
weren't for selfish people i think they
had a pretty self-sufficient community
going there the radio man for the
community picks up a transmission for
what seems to be the first time in a
very long time signifying that they
aren't alone anymore at the same time
the spotter sounds the alarm when he
sees a tank come over the horizon
towards them the tank and a whole convoy
come to a halt just outside of their
gates the tank hatch opens and vanzan
played by matthew mcconaughey emerges
and demands to speak with whoever is in
charge have no fear the americans are in
the united kingdom somehow greedy even
makes a comment saying only one thing
worse than a dragon americans despite
having top billing on the film matthew
mcconaughey's appearance here comes a
full 30 minutes into the film quinn
speaks with him and suspects him a foul
play he tells him to leave while van
zand pulls out a dragon tooth proving
that he has the power to kill the
dragons vanzan's story of how he managed
to bring down a dragon makes quinn pause
and reconsider everything he explains
that there's a golden hour between day
and night that makes their senses less
attuned that's the hour where humans
have a chance to get around their
heightened senses he allows them to take
shelter at their fortress for a day in
what seems to be a magnificent show of
force their helicopter just pops up and
lands this is where we meet alexander
who is vanzant's pilot after they've
been settling in for a bit the alarm for
another dragon sounds while the
community members run to their shelters
the americans prepare for a battle while
they're getting ready for this showdown
with a dragon one of vanzant's members
gets taken out which leaves quinn to get
his equipment placed during this time a
fantastic air chase happens with some of
vanzant's guys wing suiting with the
dragon on their tail for 2002 the
graphics and interaction are phenomenal
as quinn helps lure the dragon to vanzan
while on horseback vanzan makes his one
shot count and he brings the dragon down
in the middle of the community this
leads to the community celebrating with
the americans that night in a party they
haven't seen in decades vanzan and his
remaining crew crash the party in the
middle of the celebration and deliver a
reasonable yet soul-crushing monologue
explaining how one dead dragon is
nothing to celebrate he says a quote
here that sticks with me even now envy
the country who has heroes pity the
country that needs them vanzan and alex
explain their theory of how to kill the
species apparently they've only ever
killed and seen females they believe
that there is only one male that
fertilizes all the eggs in one fell
swoop kill the male kill the species van
zann explains that he's out of men and
out of resources and that's why he's
there he wants to recruit from the
community and continue tracking the mail
which he believes is housed somewhere
nearby i'll give you one good guess
where that might end up being van zand
gives his speech to the people to help
recruit soldiers after only four
volunteers vanzan decides to take six by
force this causes quinn to fight vanzan
where he quickly realizes that he's
outmatched here's another fun fact for
you christian bale initially figured his
character should have been scrawny
considering it's a post-apocalyptic
movie after seeing how matthew
mcconaughey looked on the first day of
filming he quickly changed his mind and
bulked up he figured this fight wouldn't
have looked realistic or believable at
all if matthew was buff and christian
was scrawny as quinn wanders around the
burnt crops from before he soon realizes
that the adopted son he had kind of
taken under his wing decided not to
volunteer for vanzant's army after all
and was still there with him it was
definitely a touching moment in a movie
that just doesn't have any van zann
arrives just outside of london where a
massive dragon stalks his army he
quickly realizes that he has located the
male he had mentioned earlier as the
dragon burns his entire convoy alex has
been in the air looking for a way to the
town when she makes it back to where she
left fans and she finds that everyone
but vanzan and one other has been burnt
to a crisp now the male is aggravated he
makes his way to the community and sets
it ablaze with only a few breaths quinn
rides his horse back to the community
that creedy is trying to rally once he
arrives he comes face to face with the
dragon as it flies off he rushes into
the burning tower to rescue whoever he
can and he comes face to face with
creedy who is saving kids and taking
them down to the shelter while he's
bringing more kids down the dragon comes
back if dragons could have personal
vendettas this is the one literally as
quinn sends greedy back out to get more
the dragon shoots flame all the way down
the stairs and burns him to a crisp this
literally takes seconds it's the
quickest most abrupt goodbye to a
beloved character ever after the shock
is subsided from the characters lives
there comes a knock on the door and
quinn jumps over and starts banging on
the door that seems stuck the absolute
last thing i would be doing is banging
on the door that that humongous dragon
could have been outside of lo and behold
once the door gives way we see that it
is none other than alex vanzan and the
one other survivor while i'd be happy to
see another human instead of a rampaging
dragon that's the last face i would have
wanted to see but vansen's first words
are you are right so that's satisfying
in itself
as the survivors emerge from the rubble
banzan salvages what he can for weapons
quinn gets all super soldier on van
zandt when he explains the plan for what
comes next quinn tells him he knows
where to find the mail and it would just
be him van zane and alex on the mission
to bring him down they land their
helicopter just outside london which
looks like a nuke had been dropped on it
dragons are pushed on the rooftops
around the town and this is definitely
the town you don't want to sneak into
and what is a magnificent show of the
spectrum the male dragon makes the sound
far off and literally a hundred dragons
swarm from the town this whole time
we've been struggling with a tiny dragon
now there's a hundred and the one male
that is the size of 10 females and after
watching the male catch a female and
start eating her the three survivors
decide it's a good time to run into town
and yell commands to each other how
queen has survived for two decades i'll
never understand they run into tunnels
that are similar to the ones that
quinn's mom worked on in the beginning
as they get ready to go back to the
surface they realize one of the dragons
is stalking them from above the crew
jump on a broken elevator cap to access
the shaft which gives quinn flashbacks
of his mother when he pushes through it
we know he means business as they prep
for their final showdown alex and vanzan
reminisced that this was not how they
imagined this going alex expected to be
in the skies and vanzan expected to have
200 men but now their plan involving
face to face with the dragon
motivational okay again this dragon must
just be an angry creature because the
second it flies over them it blows fire
it doesn't even know they're there it's
just blowing fire to blow fire
their window has arrived and they begin
to run through the streets in different
directions even i'm confused about the
plan now queen makes it to cover only to
realize his explosive tip arrows fell
out of his pocket which changes the plan
a little as alex runs as a decoy vanzan
posts up on a tower and fires a boat at
the dragon which i can't tell if it
actually damaged it or just made it
angrier but he takes this chance to leap
with the dragon with a battle axe this
movie has played out more like a monster
hunter movie than the actual monster
hunter movie did obviously he doesn't
kill the dragon he's eaten in one fluid
motion in midair quick little final
facts about matthew here he mentions
that he had shaved his head before
filming due to losing his hair he also
told the entire crew to call him vanzan
anytime they saw him on and off the set
quinn takes his chance to run out and
bring alex to cover before taking charge
of the situation the dragon spots them
and chases them on foot through the
streets once quinn finds his missing
explosive tip he runs for it to buy him
time alex runs out and spray shoots the
dragon with her m16 genius quinn
hesitates to pull the trigger until the
dragon finally opens his mouth again
giving quinn the perfect shot it blows
up in the dragon's mouth and just like
that it's dead if this movie is
excellent at anything it's
anti-climactic resolutions and deaths
alex comes over to quinn and offers a
few comforting words literally just a
few comforting words nothing else no
thanks no motivation no hug or anything
just a quick he knew you could do it
thanks alex i don't know what we would
have done without your charming words
seriously now that we're here at the end
i can safely say that alex is one of the
most pointless main characters ever
while we may have needed a helicopter
pilot for the one dragon in the middle
of the film ultimately it could have
just been named helicopter pilot there
was no actual character story added
quality or even romance for her
character i would have happily traded
alex to keep creedy around for the final
showdown we now pan over queen alex and
a bunch of survivors building an antenna
of some kind the kid quinn took under
his wing rides up and says that he's
receiving a transmission from the french
now signifying that other survivors
around the world are reaching out now
quinn mentions that it's been three
months since their last dragon sighting
and he's become somewhat of a badass now
saying he'll just kill the next one they
see he proceeds to pick up what looks to
be vanzan's battle axe and he walks off
over the hillside with alex in hand and
the end just like that it's over all in
all rain of fire is one of those
surprising films that shouldn't make
sense but it does it comes across as a
cheesy idea but they made it a serious
film that worked by all accounts i
shouldn't have enjoyed the movie as much
as i did if anyone ever wanted to see a
movie with dragons and fire
extinguishers in the same universe then
i would absolutely recommend this film i
hope you enjoyed the video if you did
like it leave a like on the video and
suggest what i should watch next
subscribe if you want to see more videos
like this one and i'll see you in the
next video